LINUX EXERCISE

1. Hardware
 a) What directory in the Linux filesystem stores information about system resources?
 b) What file on the proc directory contains information about the CPU.
review: The answer is correct. Kindly use the full path for the file for clarity.
 c) What file on the proc directory contains information about the Memory.
review: Kindly use the full path
 d) What is a kernel?
 e) What are kernel modules?
 f) Where are kernel modules stored by default on Linux filesystems.
 g) From the terminal:
  I. determine what's the version of the kernel running on your system?
  II. list the currently loaded kernel modules and from the modules, highlight two that are in use and 2 that are not in use.
  III. show the information of the modules named above. 
  IV. unload/remove one of the modules that are not in use.(mark this module to reload later)
  V. get the OS name that is currently installed.
  VI. get the architecture used by your processor(x86 or x64 or ....)
  VII. get all the available information about the system.

2. Booting
 a) What is the default program in Linux systems that starts the Boot Process?
 b) Which file stores the default configurations of the Linux Boot Loader?
 c) Once a change is made to the Boot Loader's configuration settings, what command is used to update it?
 d) What directory stores the boot loader's scripts?
 e) What script is responsible for loading the boot loaders configuration settings?

 f) What script is responsible for scanning the disk for other operating systems and add them to the boot menu?
 g) What command can be used to view logs of your recent boot process.
 h) What is the name of the first process that is run with the kernel?
addition: it's called init process in older Linux systems
 i) What does this process do when it's first started by the kernel during the boot process?
review: You are right. But how does it do that? eg the process uses _ files located in _ to start processes that does the stuff you mentioned.
 j) List and explain the runlevels in most Linux systems.
 k) From your terminal, use the runlevels to reboot your machine in the default runlevel.
 l) Now with that base, fully explain the boot process from when the power-on self test is complete.

3. misc
 a) What is an inode?
 b) From the terminal:
  I. list with their inodes, the contents of your HOME directory
 c) What is a hard link?
 d) From the terminal:
  I. create a text file with arbitrary content in your HOME directory, then create a hardlink for it?
  II. add another line to the file you created then print the contents of both the file and the hardlink you created and compare there inodes. What is your conclusion?
  III. Delete the file you created on your HOME directory and list the contents with their inode numbers displayed. What happens to the inode when you delete the file you created?
 e) What is a symbolic link?
 f) Give advantage that symbolic links have over hardlinks that make them more commonly used?
 g) From the terminal:
  I. create a text file with arbitrary content in your HOME directory, then create a softlink for it?
  II. list with their inodes the contents of your home directory and compare the inodes of the softlink with that of the file you created.
  III. Print the contents of the softlink you created.
  IV. delete the file you created then once again print the contents of the softlink. What is your conclusion?
 e) What is a stream?
 f) List the three standard streams used in Linux shells.
 g) From the terminal:
  I. what is your current user's UID
  II. what is your current user's GID
  III. Create a text file, and check the permission bits of the file. Explain what they mean?

