Files:

An access.log of a web application: access.log.2 file in this folder.

Expected deliverables:
- A word document well structured with the question and answer. You can add screenshots where necessary.
- A history file from where you started the exercise. To get this, first run:
 * history | tail -n 1 => Note down the number on the left margin. Then run:
 * history | awk '$1 > number_above' | tee yourname_history.txt
- This is the history file that should be zipped and sent along side the word document.
 

1. From the terminal:
 a) make a directory in your HOME directory called 'logs'
 b) move into 'logs' directory
 c) download into the 'log' directory the file at url: http://<URL>
 d) move this file to the '/tmp' directory where you'll be working on.
 e) Find the number of log entries in the file(lines)
 f) Find how many IPs made requests to the web server.
 g) Find which IP made:
  i. the most requests
  ii. the least requests
  iii. requests using suspicious User-Agent strings suggesting a fuzzing attack.
 h) List all the User-Agent strings that the suspicious IP used.
 i) Find what time was the last request made by the IP using suspicious agent string.

2. In Linux systems, what is the default directory for storing logs?
3. From the logs stored in that directory, which one logs authentication and authorization events.
4. Which file in the Linux system, stores information about the users on the system?
5. Which file in the Linux filesystem stores password hashes of system users?
6. From the terminal:
 a) Find how many disks are currently mounted on your system
 b) Find how many partitions each disk has.
 c) Find the disk usage
 d) Find the disk size in MiB of the earlier downloaded log file stored at $HOME/logs folder.
 e) Reboot the machine and check the '/tmp' directory for your files. Are they present? Why?
7. From the terminal:
 a) Print the values of the PATH and HOME system environment variables on the terminal.
 b) What benefit does the PATH variable give.
 c) Find the common file type of the files located in the paths listed in the PATH variable.
8. Contrast between the file types of the files located in the directories listed in the PATH variable with those files stored in /var/log and /etc/ directories.

9. From the terminal:
 a) Create 4 users: john, jane, cat, bob
 b) Create 2 groups; male & female
 c) Add john & bob to male group
 d) Add jane & cat to female group
 e) Give john the ability to run all commands as root.
 f) Log in as jane and:
  i. change the password
  ii. create 2 random files in jane's home directory.
 g) Log in as cat and:
  i. change the password
  ii. create 2 random files in cat's home directory.
  iii. make file 1 only readable and writable by members of the Female group.
 h) Log in as bob(intentionally fail the login twice) and:
  i. change the password.
  ii. create 2 random files.
  iii. change the ownership of file 1 to jane.
 i) Log in as john and:
  i. change the password.
  ii. create 2 random files.
  iii. Make file one readable and writable by anyone through altering it's permissions.
  iv. List the contents of both jane's, bob's and cat's home directory. Are you able to view the files? Why?
  v. Now forcefully list the contents of jane's, bob's and cat's home directories. Explain why your are able to view.
 j) Log in as jane and:
  i. list the contents of the other users(bob,john,cat) home directories. Are you able to view the files? Why?
  ii. Try to forcefully list the contents of their home directories the same way you did in john's session.
  iii. Edit file 1 of the user cat adding a line saying, "jane was here!" at the bottom. Are you able to save it successfully? Why?
  iv. Read the contents of bob's file 1 and file 2. Is it successful? Why?
  v. Read the contents of john's file 1 and file 2. Is it successful? Why?

10. From the terminal:
 a) Analyze the authentication logs to answer the following questions:
  i. Are there any unsuccessful login entries? If present, provide the entire log entry showing it.
  ii. Are there any unauthorized attempts to access resources? If present, provide the entire log entry showing it.
